---
layout: posts
title:  "Decay - A CycleGAN Project"
header:
  image: assets/images/2021-02-01-Decay/Decay.png
---
---
> Our project began with a question, *"what if inorganic things **'decay'**, like organic things?"*
---
## Decay, in Biology
The word **decay** nearly instinctively gives a negative impression, because it is usually associated with death. After an organic body goes through death, it biodegrades, or less formally, decays. The decomposers, such as fungi or bacteria, break down the organic body, changing it into an inorganic matter and blending it back in with the earth.

The physical and chemical properties of the dead organism change as it decays. As a result, the appearance becomes drastically different after an organic matter decays. The colors might change from vivid to dull; dark moles might appear; cavities with varying sizes might be created as well.

## Decay and sustainability
However, humankind nowadays are rather more concerned of materials that do not decay — for example, plastics. According to [Plastic Soup Foundation](https://www.plasticsoupfoundation.org/en/plastic-problem/plastic-environment/plastic-production-decomposition/), *plastic is non-biodegradable*.

> *Plastic does not decompose. This means that all plastic that has ever been produced and has ended up in the environment is still present there in one form or another.*

This is the reason why **sustainable design** is gaining popularity lately. Man-made products, after some time, must consider the environmental impact.  Biodegradable plastics are one of such attempts.

## Decay, and Neural network
Through deep convolutional neural network, we imagined the world where everything is organic, and thus perishes. We trained a cycleGAN model, a type of Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), that predicts the "decayed" appearance of any arbitrary input images — a tennis ball, a rubber duck. etc.
For more information about cycleGAN, please follow the [link](lol).